Testing 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3.
Testing 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
This is Tuesday, the 19th of December.
We're testing 1, 2, 3.
1, 2, 3.
Tuesday, December 19, and I have the honor of chatting with General Ted Hupgood.
General, as we begin, introduce yourself, please, to the hearer or the reader of the transcription of this.
Where did you grow up?
What mom and dad's background and what they did?
Where did you go to high school?
Tell us about everything before you got to Texas A&M.
My name is Ted Hopgood.
I'm the Class of 65, Texas A&M.
I was born in Belleville, Illinois on the 6th of August, 1943.
I lived in Southern Illinois until I was in the fourth grade, nine years old, when my dad
And Mom moved our family to Williston, North Dakota.
The reason we moved was to follow the oil exploration because my father sold seismograph supplies, primarily dynamite, for a living.
And we lived in Williston, North Dakota through grade school, junior high and high school.
I graduated from high school in the spring of 1961.
My father had grown up on a farm in Missouri, and he went to St.
Louis in the Depression in the late 20s, early 30s, and he took a job as an office boy with Atlas Powder Company, and after being an office boy for a while, they put him on the road as a salesman, and he was selling dynamite in
East Texas and Louisiana, and he met my mother who was maiden name was Colstead, Freddie Louise Colstead.
She was from Palestine, Texas.
She was a graduate of LSU and working on a newspaper in Shreveport when they met and were married.
All during my grade school and high school days, I was very much into athletics.
and also developed an interest in the military because in some ways it seemed to me to be a carry-on of athletics and that you competed and that you had to be a member of a team and i enjoyed being a member of teams and i enjoyed competing i
Thought I wanted to go to the Naval Academy out of high school, but I had a good time in high school, and my grades were not sufficiently strong to get an appointment to the Naval Academy.
And since my mother had grown up in Texas, she was familiar with Texas A&M.
And at her urging, we sent away and got the information on Texas A&M, and I liked what it said, and decided I would like to go to Texas A&M, and I came down.
In the September of 1961, and I remember that my mom and dad dropped me off on the steps of the YMCA, and I went down into the housing office and I got registered.
And I came up, told my mom and dad I was all set.
They handed me my footlocker and they drove away.
And I was foot loose and fancy free for about 20 minutes, as long as it took me to walk over to dormitory one.
And dormitory one, I joined the Corps of Cadets and joined a lifestyle
which quickly became very important to me and something that even to this day I can't ever recollect ever not enjoying it and being part of a good team.
And I was part and parcel an Aggie from that day forward.
Had you really been acquainted with any Aggies before you got here?
I did not know one Aggie.
During the time I was growing up, as I say, I enjoyed athletics.
I was an avid sports fan.
And I knew that Texas A&M played football in the Southwest Conference.
And periodically growing up, I had watched the game on Thanksgiving Day when A&M would play the T-Sips.
And you had not visited the campus until you came to enroll.
Had never been on the campus until I enrolled, and my parents never came back to campus until May of 1965 when I graduated.
They watched me get commissioned into the Marine Corps.
They watched graduation and saw final review.
I imagine their whole time on campus for my parents was probably less than five hours.
Was there a fish camp?
There wasn't a fish camp your freshman?
There was a fish camp, and I did go to fish camp.
Describe it.
Well, fish camp was up at Lakeview in Palestine.
I remember there were roofs on the building, but the walls were primarily screen walls.
And I remember meeting...
A classmate named Bobby Innes, who was from Paris, Texas, and he was the first classmate that I met.
And I remember, although it may sound funny, I remember us making our beds there with the sheets that were provided and the screens.
There's one of those things that just sticks in my mind.
What did you learn at Fish Camp?
What was important about it?
Well, I think Fish Camp was to prepare us for...
Life at Texas A&M.
There were lots of people telling about their personal experiences at Texas A&M, whether it was in the classroom or on the drill field or extracurricular activities, and there were lots of stressing
about the importance of the Aggie spirit and that Aggies were unique and special and that Texas Aggies had loyalty to one another and that you were part of a larger family and if you were successful as a freshman and successful as a student, it was something that would be with you the rest of your life.
At Fish Camp, did you learn yells and songs and traditions or was that later?
I honestly don't remember, although I'm sure all that was part of it.
I know I've visited fish camp since I've come back and become part of the faculty at Texas A&M, and so I'm sure that that was part of it.
About how many were there?
Well, I remember there were several hundred of us, and I also recall that
that when we came back from fish camp, we came back in yellow buses.
I don't remember going to fish camp, but I remember coming back in yellow buses because Hurricane Carla was coming in our direction.
I remember it was raining.
And I don't remember where the buses came back to campus or much after that other than the fact that my first days
and the Corps seemed like there was a lot of rain.
I remember we had plastic raincoats, and as we moved around getting our books and our uniforms and getting oriented that we wore these plastic raincoats and Bermuda shorts and shower shoes because everything else that wasn't covered by a raincoat was going to get soaked.
And what outfit were you in?
I joined Company A-1, which was in Dormitory 1, and my room was on the second floor at the head of the stairs.
Did it have a nickname, A-1?
A-1 was then known, as it continues to be known, as Animal A. Animal A. Animal A. There weren't so much animals as they were in the athletics.
and i remember very well all the emphasis that was on athletics and i had been a better than average high school athlete so i fit right into the all the emphasis on uh on athletics i still probably have some scars on my body from squadron eight i remember we seemed like every
However far we got in the competition, we always ended up losing to Squadron 8 until the end of the year when we finally beat Squadron 8 in a brand new activity to me, horseshoes.
I had never pitched horseshoes, and I remember sitting on the floor as a freshman we're prone to do, and our athletic sergeant, Joe Rodriguez, looked at all his freshmen and said that, damn it, we were going to win the championship in horseshoes, and I think I must have rolled my eyes
Of course, by six or seven months in, I guess I had enough privilege of a freshman, I could roll my eyes, and he said, damn it, Fish Hopgood, you're going to be the coach.
or the captain, and if we don't win, you're in for it.
So I was very glad that we finally won horseshoes.
Describe how you blended into that unit.
What was it the first few weeks?
Describe the— The first few weeks were the military was
was all new to me.
After I look back now on thirty-one years of active duty in the Marine Corps, it's hard to think that the military was ever new to me, but it really was.
Wearing a uniform was new.
Marching was new.
I remember how
Closely we were instructed to depend on our fish buddies, and that this unity between you and your fish buddies was stressed, and the fact that
Whether it was true or not, I guess you never know, but the only friends you have here are your fish buddies.
You're not going to do anything without your fish buddies.
Loyalty to your fellow freshmen was stressed and re-stressed.
Now, with the age to reflect back on and all the experiences of leadership,
to have in the Marine Corps and then coming back to be the Commandant of the Corps, I appreciate the quality of the upperclassmen that were in our outfit.
The CO, who was Donnelly Brothers, and the XO, who was Mike Hicks, and the 1st Sergeant, who was Paul King, all served successful careers in the Army and that they all retired as colonels.
And like the sophomore that lived next to me, Frank Supersensky,
He's a successful lawyer in East Texas.
The upperclassmen in our outfit, while they were demanding, were just wonderful role models.
But they were role models in the sense that they were firm, but they had a sense of humor.
They were demanding.
but they cared about us and looked out for us as a group.
And I remember doing lots of physical training and I remember doing lots of marching, but there was an element that I quickly became aware of is that the upperclassmen seemed like they enjoyed one another, they enjoyed the Corps of Cadets, and I quickly became, I aspired
to be part of this, I guess without overstretching the term, the band of brothers, if you will, dependent on one another, loyal to one another, and part of the experience of the good times and the learning experience.
What were some of the first activities that an outsider might call hazing, where you all had to fall out in the hallway and do something or other?
What were some of the factors?
Hopefully memory doesn't dim.
I don't remember being hazed.
I just thought it was all just to me seemed to be training.
We had this example when we went to eat in Duncan, go to the mess hall and have chow.
There were certain ways that you had to eat and the freshmen had to provide meal service to everybody on their table.
But the reason you provided meal service was to make sure everything was efficiently and the food was served.
After all the food was served, I guess there was a few times where I didn't get enough to eat.
Heck, I thought the chow was great, and I got plenty to eat.
Of course, I was from out of state, so when the weekends would come, unless I went home with a buddy, I was in the mess hall, and most of the crowd that stuck around the weekend were the same people from different outfits.
There was just kind of a different flavor on the weekends.
thoroughly enjoyed life in the dorm and life on the campus and friends.
I really, I don't ever remember getting hit with a broom or with a paddle when I was a freshman.
There might have been a time or two as a sophomore when a junior hit me or a time as a junior when a senior, but that was just all kind of, I don't know, it was a lot more
smiles and front association.
I never felt bullied.
I never felt threatened.
Did you all do push-ups?
We must have, but I don't remember.
into the Corps.
I made the decision to join the Marine Corps when I was a freshman.
I remember we came here in September of 1961 and I joined the Marine Corps on the 28th of November 1961.
Do you remember why you made that decision?
Well, my high school football coach had been a
Marine that had fought on Iwo Jima.
I remember as a youngster growing up in North Dakota, prior to television, going to the movies.
There were a lot of World War II movies, and I was attracted to the Marine Corps there.
When I came to A&M, there were several
people in our outfit that I liked and admired who were in the Marine Corps, what's called the PLC program, platoon leaders class program.
There were several upperclassmen in our dorm that were highly respected, that were part of the PLC program.
It just seemed natural to me to investigate the program, and I was quickly joined.
Were there many others in your outfit that did?
I think there was only one other freshman in our outfit, and that was Ronnie Sanford.
I can't remember.
He did not graduate with us, and I don't think he got much beyond—I'm not sure he even got into his sophomore year.
One of the upperclassmen that lived in our dorm was Tom Ralph, who was the class of 62.
who was into the Ross Volunteers and a yell leader and a tremendous role model from Clifton, Texas.
I only knew him at a distance.
He was just a very outstanding role model.
I'm sure, although time and memory fades, but I'm sure that by going into the Marine Corps that he was a factor.
Did you have a fish old lady?
I had two fish old ladies.
One was Phil LaNassa.
P.J.
Lanasa from Beaumont, and he's currently a doctor of education.
My other roommate, fish old lady, was Mike Richardson.
Both of those gents graduated when I did in the spring of 65, and Mike Richardson went on active duty in the Marine Corps, flew attack aircraft, and is now a pilot.
Phil Lanasa was
His mother had been a teacher, and I think he was a career educator to be from day one.
Mike Richardson was a motorcycle, riding, skydiving.
Probably set to be a fighter pilot from shortly after the time he got here.
So I had real two contrasting fish old ladies.
Describe your room that freshman year.
The room was... What was in it?
I remember it had a double bed that was made out of iron and springs all out of steel with a mattress that...
When it was time to sleep, I didn't have any problems sleeping.
There was a sink in one corner for washing and shaving.
My roommate and I each had a wooden desk with a wooden chair.
We each had a footlocker and we each had a closet.
In our closet, we hung a few civilian clothes in our uniforms.
And the bathroom was a common bathroom with several urinals and several stalls, and then we had a shower.
No curtain, no rug.
No curtains, no rugs.
Anything hang on the wall?
Thank you.
No, the only thing we could, as I recall, the only thing we could put, we had to put our class schedule and our report of grades had to be up on this small kind of bulletin board we had.
And the upperclassmen would always come in and check our grades and our class schedule.
What kind of chores did you all have to perform each morning?
We had to sweep.
the hallways, because the hallways were all concrete, and the upperclassmen, as well as I guess the freshmen and the two, you'd dump your trash out into the hallway, just empty your trash can out in the hallway, and then the freshmen would have to sweep it all up and put it in the trash cans.
It seems stupid.
I'm sure there were a few people that put their trash in the trash cans, but
Maybe there wasn't, because we sure had to sweep up a lot, and there was a lot of newspapers and a lot of trash to sweep up.
We also had to take the laundry, pick up all the laundry for not only the freshmen, but all the upperclassmen.
It was a freshman privilege to make sure that the laundry all got turned in down in dorm 12.
I remember dorm 12 had to take it down there and turn it in.
I also remember
Picking up laundry.
It seems like we all picked up our own laundry, but I may be—I know I picked up mine, but maybe if I picked up upperclassmen, I don't remember.
Did you all wash—do any of your own washing?
Did you wash socks or underwear?
I don't remember.
I don't think so.
Later on on active duty, I remember, you know, in field conditions and so forth, washing clothes out, but I don't remember washing clothes out in the Corps.
Did you have to take care of some upperclassmen's room each morning?
No, I don't remember ever having to make beds or clean up upperclassmen rooms.
I do remember shining a tremendous number of boots and shoes for upperclassmen, but I do remember that for some reason the freshman would end up in my room and would be in there shining and it was a chance to chat and
laugh and share experiences.
Once again, I never felt bullied or picked on.
It just seemed like, well, this is natural that we shine the upperclassmen shoes.
As I recall, when I was an upperclassman, I don't recall
very often ever wanting my shoes or boots shined because I knew how to shine boots and shoes and I wanted them done the way that I wanted them to be done.
Describe a typical Monday through Friday day.
What time did you get up?
What happened when?
All the way till Paps?
The best I can recall is we got up at six o'clock.
I don't remember very often getting up before 6.
Now, that's different in the Corps of today, but when I was in the Corps, it seemed like we got up at 6.
As best I can recall, we had to be on the wall at 6.20.
Be on the wall means that the freshmen had a particular place that they had to be standing close to the door with our backs on the wall and the back of our heads on the wall.
at 6.20 and then we fell out as best I can recall at 6.30.
Now, every outfit had a whistle jock and a whistle jock was the person that went around and blew the whistle and then announced with a very loud voice,
what the menu was and what call it was for Chow.
First call, second call, and last call.
And it seemed like they were at 10 minute intervals.
And that woke the upperclassmen up and also told them how long they had before they had to be out in the...
be out to go to formation because what would happen is the freshman would be down on a lower floor standing there at say 20 after or 10 minutes before we had to fall out then whatever whatever upperclassmen would come down and as we were standing at the position of attention would ask us questions about the athletics football scores and numbers and who the captain was and various things about
campusology about monuments and dates and all about Texas A&M.
One of the things here was that if your fish buddies didn't know, well, you didn't know either.
Or whatever answer they gave, if it was the wrong answer and you knew the right answer, you'd better say the wrong answer also.
because it was emphasized just as important as giving the answer was to make sure that you didn't show up one of your fish buddies.
So you had to listen very, very closely.
So if one of your fish buddies said that,
that Lawrence Sullivan Ross was, we all knew that he was 1838, 1898, soldier statesman and knightly gentleman, but if they said soldier statesman and governor, you know, you'd say soldier statesman and governor just like it was, just like that was expected.
Of course, the upperclassmen then would, with a little bit of a smile, would say, oh my God, you don't know, he wasn't the governor, he was a knightly gentleman.
And you'd say, don't you know that?
And of course, the answer was no, sir.
That was kind of the pass or fail thing, was not that you had the knowledge, but that you didn't show up your fish buddy.
After all, the upperclassmen would assemble, and then it seemed like they'd start talking to each other and maybe joking among each other, and some of the freshmen would be somewhat ignored, and the outfit would fall out.
Form up in formation and we would march to chow.
Marching to chow was a time to be trained and to march correctly with the correct distance between you and the person in front of you and correct alignment and your correct hand swing and good posture, etc.
because the outfits were all graded.
at corps trips and march-ins and how well they did.
Our upperclassmen and our outfit were Army contracts and they wanted to do well so that for whatever reason, I didn't know at the time, but I assume it was for whatever MOS or specialty they were going to get assigned in the service or get their pay or whatever, but we always marched.
Wasn't one of those people that learned marching real quickly.
So I concentrated and wanted to not be singled out for ridicule or for correction and learned how to march.
The formations went three times a day.
As I can recollect, 6.30.
12 o'clock noon and 6.30 in the evening, although there might be some variance there.
And then the classes, the one-hour classes from 8 to 9, 9 to 10, 10 to 11, 11 to 12.
And the classes started again, 1 to 2, 2 to 3, and 3 to 4.
And best I can recall, all the classes were over at 4.
And then we went back to the dorms and we had intramural activities or drill from 4 until about 6, 10.
When we all came back to the dorm,
and everybody was able to take a shower and get dressed in 10 minutes and be back on the wall for 620 and fallout at 630 to march up to Duncan for evening chow.
And after evening chow, we would come back and be ready to study at 7.30 in the evening for CQ or call to quarters from 7.30 until 10.30.
And at 10.30, between 10.30 and 11, everybody was able to get their uniforms ready for the next day, shower, and go to bed at 11 o'clock ready to get up the next morning.
It's six.
The mess hall was unique in the fact that you sat at the same table with the same upperclassmen.
And the freshmen, it was our privilege to make sure that we ran the hot corner and gave meal service to everybody there.
But as I said earlier, that was more or less an efficiency thing and a training thing.
And I never felt put upon to do it because once you achieved a certain degree of speed and order, everybody got to eat and you got to eat and you didn't get harassed.
You know, woe to the freshmen who couldn't run the hot corner because that meant the other people weren't going to
weren't going to eat.
But during the meal, some of the questions were serious about campusology-type things and sports programs or whatever, but then a lot of the questions were— Were there Cush questions?
Oh, Cush questions.
Cush questions were— Give some samples.
Yeah, all the meals had to do with everything that we ate had a Messall slang name, and Cush was for dessert.
And if a freshman wanted to eat his dessert,
you would have to answer a Cush question.
A Cush question might be, who is the captain of the football team?
I know that the captains of the football team in the fall of 1961 were Wayne Freiling and Buddy Eilers and what their numbers were and where they were from.
If the Cush was particularly good and the upper class wanted to ensure that there was extra pieces for them and perhaps none for you, the questions would get particularly hard.
And one of the questions would be, how many stars on the state flag of Texas?
And if you gave the answer one, well, all of a sudden there was two, there was one on each side.
And if you gave the answer two, it was, my God, how stupid are you, Fish Hopgood?
I know you're a Yankee, but there's only one star on there, you don't get your cush.
So there were some questions that you couldn't answer.
But there was always meal hounding allowed in the fact that at the end of the, when all the upperclassmen left the table,
and you were still sitting there and there was another table that you could spot whatever was left over, whether it was dessert or more drink or whatever.
You were, as a freshman, privileged to go over and take the food off the table and bring it back to yours.
But it seemed like the Chris questions were particularly hard at noontime because most of us had one o'clock classes and you didn't have a chance to meal-hound.
And so that's, does that answer it?
Yeah, that's the kind of, do you remember any pranks at mealtime?
Well, yes, there was.
One thing that I always, I guess, has forever endeared the Corps of Cadets' experience to me was, and also found on active duty in the Marine Corps, was that the sense of humor was always
was always close to the surface for people that I liked and hopefully I think I developed a sense of humor along the line.
So pranks, hijinks if you will, were part of whatever went on.
As an example, one of the things that would often occur is that while
people were sitting at a table and you set, let's say, eight or ten tables would be designated for your outfit, is an upperclassman, primarily a senior, would tell a freshman to go tie another upperclassman's laces on his shoes together.
The way that you had to do that is you had to get down below
had to get down and do a little crawl around and get in there without disturbing the other senior and tie his shoelaces, which was almost an impossible type of thing.
Or the upperclassmen would have paper napkins, and the paper napkins would hang down.